- [Instructor] Let's go to the next step now.
We have to add the Java configuration
to bootstrap the DispatcherServlet class.
Now the approach that we're going to adopt to
in this entire course is that we're going to do
all the configuration using either
a Java configuration class
or with the help of annotations.
In a normal web application,
you could have bootstrap an external servlet,
using WebXML.
But WebXML is not something
that we're going to go ahead with,
so entire bootstrapping of the DispatcherServlet
will happen in a Java configuration class
that I'm going to write now.
So let's do that.
On the IDE,
let's create a package, here.
Let's say com.test.
And let's create a class which says
ApplicationInitializer.
Now this should implement a class
which is called WebApplicationInitializer
which is coming from the springframework web package.
And this is going to provide you all the APIs
in order to register the DispatcherServlet
for this springmvcmaven project.
So let's go ahead and add the
unimplemented methods.
So we have a method called onStartup
which provides us with a parameter of servletContext.
ServletContext is one of the APIs of the
servlet jsp api, of course.
This configuration that we're going to write
inside the onStartup is equivalent to the configuration
that you would probably do inside a web XML file.
So let's go ahead and
bootstrap the dispatcherservlet,
that's the first step.
Now how do we do that?
Generally, inside a spring project,
the entire configuration is fetched into a context object.
Now since this is a web application,
and we are using annotations,
the API that we are trying to grab is the
AnnotationConfigWebApplicationContext.
So let's get hold of that.
Instantiate that,
this will be Annotation,
we call the constructor included an object of it,
and this also will have to be registered
with the spring configuration that we want to write.
Now the spring configuration also will go
in another Java class,
but we'll look at that point in a minute.
So once we've cleared this object,
the next big step is to bootstrap that dispatcher servlet,
so that will be done with the ServletRegistration
dot Dynamic interface.
Let's grab a variable for it,
and on the servletContext, we are going to say addServlet.
Now addServlet is going to demand from you
a name for the servlet,
which is a name of your choice.
I'm just going to say mvc,
and then let's also create the dispatcherServlet instance.
Now to this dispatcherServlet instance,
we're going to tie the context,
which we have created on line number fifteen.
So I'm just going to
go and attach that context.
Let's
move this to the new line,
so that we're able to follow the Java conventions,
and on this, a couple of more things.
We have to say servletRegistration.setLoadOnStartup,
set this to one.
What does this mean?
Whenever you register a servlet inside your application,
you need to tell the container that this servlet
has to be instatiated and initialized on priority.
This LoadOnStartup number
is going to help the container do that.
The default value for this is minus one,
and if it is set to minus one, then the container
can initialize this as a lazy loading procedure,
but we don't want that.
So we set that priority to one.
Another thing, we get the servletRegistration
and addMapping,
and now let's understand what this mapping is.
So we have already seen in the architecture
that every request that comes
will come with a URL pattern.
Now we want to specify
all the requests coming to this project,
or coming to this application
with a specific URL pattern.
So that URL pattern, you define with the addMapping API.
It's completely your choice.
I just kept it as a simple slash.
Whatever follows after that,
all of the requests will be intercepted
by dispatcherServlet.
However, if you choose something that's per your design
and per your decision.
And you can also do something like app slash and all that,
so you can have a URL pattern that you're establishing
for this project.
So I'm going to go back to my default one.
Yes.
So that's what we do as a part of the first configuration.
The next one will be to add the context configuration class.
So let's go to the IDE,
right click on this.
Let's create another class.
And say applicationConfig.
Now this is the class that will hold
all the configuration for your application
with respect to the springnvc features
that you want to use as a part of this application.
And also, let's go to applicationInitializer.
Let's come on line sixteen, and as I said before,
that we have to tie up the springConfiguration class
with the AnnotationConfigWebApplicationContext.
So we will do that.
Let's grab the context object and say
register, and then you feed that
ApplicationConfig class to it.
Now let's go to ApplicationConfig,
and since this is going to be the
springConfiguration class,
we will have to annotate it with the
configuration annotation,
which again comes from the springframwork context package.
Additionally, we also have another annotation
that we want to put into place: ComponentScan.
Let me first write out the code,
and then we'll see what this is.
This takes an argument called basePackages,
and I'm just going to go and say com.test.
So what does this do?
ComponentScan is the annotation
which is going to help specify this application
that whatever classes that you find inside
basePackages com.test,
all of them have to be created as spring beans,
and have to be made available
during the application's runtime.
So it is a way to tell springmvcframework,
"Hey, listen, I have a lot of annotations defined
"in all the classes of com.test package;
"make sure you pick it up from them
"and then spawn the beans correctly."
Now this ApplicationConfig is going to extend a class
which is WebMvcConfigurationSupport.
This context configuration class needs two configurations.
One is the resource handler mapping,
and second is defining the jsp view resolver.
Let's look at the first one.
There is one method, which is called addResourceHandlers.
It's already a part of the WebMvcConfigurationSupport
that we have extended on this class.
What will this method do?
This method helps us to tell springmvc that
whenever you're picking up the static files,
like css or images,
you have to pick it up from a particular part.
Now understand this point:
the project structure that you're looking at
on the left side of IDE is going to be a little different
from the structure that actually gets generated
in the war package.
So we need to tell springframework that
when the war is created,
you need to pick up the csss and images
from the appropriate parts.
That's what this method is going to help us do.
So let's go ahead and say registry,
add the resource handler,
and tell that any part that begins like this:
css/** so every file under the css folder, part like that,
and also a part like this, all the images.
To this, you are going to make sure that
the resource locations are respectively
a folder from the classpath, which is slash css.
Again, another folder from the classpath
by the name images.
Let me just correct the spelling there.
Classpath.
There we go.
So we are saying if you find a part like this
on your jsps,
css slash, slash, images, slash, slash, whatever,
then they're supposed to be mapped to the parts
that you pick up from the classpath.
So that's the first configuration that we do,
and then the second configuration is
we have to define the jsp view resolver.
So let's go and do that.
Now this will be a bean that we're trying to register
with spring.
So I'm going to write a method for this.
This is going to return me InternalResourceViewResolver.
Now this is the one that's commonly used
for resolving your jsp files.
So you've already seen what view resolvers are
as a part of the architecture,
and this is the class that we are going to use for jsps.
So let's name this, say, jspViewResolver.
Let's come down on line 22,
I will just create an instance of this first.
And to this I'm going to set a few parameters.
One is, I'm going to set a prefix.
I'm going to say that you have to pick up
these jsps from this folder,
and the extension of those files
will be defined by the suffix api,
and let's say that is .jsp.
Another thing will be, you will have to set the ViewClass
so that it appropriately renders your jsp files.
So that view class is JstlView.
Yeah, there we go.
Once this is done, you just have to return
the viewResolver.
Fact: so there are two things that we've done.
We have made sure that the static resources
are mapped correctly using addResourceHandlers api
on line sixteen,
and we have defined the jspViewResolver
so that the jsp templates are picked up
from the correct folders.